# Introduction to Somalia (SOM) Labour Force Survey ([HBS)]

- [What is the SOM BHS?](#what-is-the-som-hbs)
- [What does the SOM HBS cover?](#what-does-the-som-hbs-cover)
- [Where can the data be found?](#where-can-the-data-be-found)
- [What is the sampling procedure?](#what-is-the-sampling-procedure)
- [What is the significance level?](#what-is-the-geographic-significance-level)
- [Other noteworthy aspects](#other-noteworthy-aspects)

## What is the SOM HBS?

The Somalia Integrated Household Budget Survey (SIHBS) is conducted by the Somalia National Bureau of Statistics (SNBS) as the first comprehensive household budget survey since 1985. Its primary objectives are to improve Gross Domestic Product (GDP) estimates, develop the commodity basket and weightings for constructing a new Consumer Price Index (CPI), and support inflation measurement through systematic consumer price data collection.

## What does the SOM HBS cover?

The Somalia Integrated Household Budget Survey (SIHBS 2022) collects data on household demographics (size, age-sex composition, marital status, identification ownership), education (literacy, attainment, attendance), health (disability, chronic illness, healthcare access, COVID-19 vaccination), housing and assets (dwellings, durable goods, energy, water, sanitation), economic activity (employment, agriculture, non-farm enterprises, income sources), food security and shocks, as well as access to financial services, ICT, and remittances. The survey also provides detailed information on household expenditures and consumption for constructing the Consumer Price Index (CPI), improving GDP estimates, and monitoring poverty and welfare at national and regional levels. GLD has access to HBS 2022. The years and sample size of harmonized GLD are:

| **Year**	| **# of Households**	| **# of Individuals**	| **Expanded Population**	| **Officially Reported Sample Size(# HH)**	| 
| :------:	| :-------:		| :-------:	 	| :-------:	 	| :-------:	| 
| 2022 | 7,212         | 47,623      |  15,361,943  |   -   |

## Where can the data be found?

Publicly available data and documentation for the Somalia Integrated Household Budget Survey (SIHBS) 2022 can be accessed on the Somalia National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) [Microdata Portal](https://microdata.nbs.gov.so/index.php/catalog/59/get-microdata).The data are free to use within the World Bank Group (WBG) for statistical and scientific research purposes only, under the following main conditions:

- No redistribution or sale of the data without NBS authorization.  
- Use is limited to **aggregated reporting**; **no re-identification** of individuals or organizations is permitted.  
- Publications must **cite the NBS** as the data source and share copies of outputs with the National Data Archive.  
- The NBS and funders **bear no responsibility** for data use or resulting interpretations.

## What is the sampling procedure?

The SOM HBS 2022 sampling design was based on a stratified multi-stage probability cluster approach. For urban and rural areas, a three-stage stratified cluster sampling method was implemented, whereas nomadic areas followed a two-stage stratified cluster sampling design. In the first stage, primary sampling units (PSUs) were chosen using probability proportional to size (PPS), with the measure of size defined by the number of dwelling structures in the sampling frame. In urban and rural domains, secondary sampling units (SSUs) were then selected using PPS, based on the number of listed households within each PSU. Finally, ultimate sampling units (USUs) for rural, urban and nomadic areas were randomly selected from listed households in the cluster.

## What is the geographic significance level?

The official Somalia [SIHBS 2022 report](utilities/SOMALIA INTEGRATED HOUSEHOLD BUDGET SURVEY (SIHBS) 2022.pdf) details the results are statistically representative at both the regional level and, nationally, by settlement type (urban, rural, and nomadic).


## Other noteworthy aspects

### How recode to ICLS-13
SIHBS 2022 rely on the 19th version ```icls_v``` of the International Conference of Labour Statisticians (ICLS) for defining employment. However, the GLD also includes surveys that utilize the 13th version. To ensure comparability, certain modifications can adjust the coding of employment variables, aided by the questionnaire structure. Precise details are covered in a separate [document](utilities/icls19to13.md).

### Age grouped in quinquennia

In the ISHBS 2022 raw data, age is recorded continuously from 0 to 19 years. From 20 to 99 years, however, age is only available in five-year groups (quinquennia). To harmonize this variable and proceed with other analyses and quality checks, we coded age using the mean value of each quinquennium. As a result, the age variable in these cases should be interpreted as representing the group rather than the exact individual age.

| Age group (5-year interval) | Assigned value (mean) |
|:-----------------------------:|:-----------------------:|
| 20-24                       | 22                    |
| 25-29                       | 27                    |
| 30-34                       | 32                    |
| 35-39                       | 37                    |
| 40-44                       | 42                    |
| 45-49                       | 47                    |
| 50-54                       | 52                    |
| 55-59                       | 57                    |
| 60-64                       | 62                    |
| 65-69                       | 67                    |
| 70-74                       | 72                    |
| 75-79                       | 77                    |
| 80-84                       | 82                    |
| 85-89                       | 87                    |
| 90-94                       | 92                    |
| 95-99                       | 97                    |

### Education system in Somalia

The Somalia education system follows a 6-3-3 structure, comprising six years of primary education, three years of intermediate (lower secondary), and three years of secondary (upper secondary). Before primary school, many children attend Quranic education (2???3 years), which focuses on the teaching and memorization of the Quran and often provides basic literacy and numeracy skills; however, it is usually not considered part of the formal education system. After completing secondary education, students may pursue post-secondary non-tertiary programs, typically lasting two years, or continue to university for a bachelor???s degree, which usually takes four years. This information is essential for constructing the variable `educy`, which measures the total number of years spent in education, and `educat7`, which classifies the highest level of education attained into seven categories. The table below summarizes the average duration in years or grades for each level of education.

| **Level**                    | **Duration ??? Grades**   | **Duration ??? Years** |
|-------------------------------|-------------------------|-----------------------|
| Quranic                        | -                       | 2 or 3 years           |
| Primary                        | Year 1 to 4             | 4 years                |
| Lower secondary                | Year 5 to 8             | 5 years                |
| Upper secondary                | Year 9 to 12            | 4 years                |
| Post-secondary non-tertiary     | -                       | 2 years                |
| University (bachelor???s degree)  | -                       | 4 years                |



