# Introduction to Zimbabwe (ZWE) Labour Force Survey

- [What is the ZWE LFS survey?](#what-is-the-zwe-lfs-survey)
- [What does the ZWE LFS survey cover?](#what-does-the-zwe-lfs-survey-cover)
- [Where can the data be found?](#where-can-the-data-be-found)
- [What is the sampling procedure?](#what-is-the-sampling-procedure)
- [What is the significance level?](#what-is-the-geographic-significance-level)

## What is the ZWE LFS survey?

The official name of the labour force survey of Zimbabwe is Labour Force and Child Labour Survey (LFCLS). For simplicity, the LFCLS will be called Labour Force Survey (LFS) in the rest of the text. The ZWE LFS provides socioeconomic indicators useful in monitoring living conditions and details in-depth information about the labour force in Zimbabwe. The survey focuses on social and economic characteristics status in employment, industry, occupation, place of work and social security. The survey periodicity is five years. The primary objectives are to provide information on the number of people classified according to their activity status, the size, and characteristics of the economically active population, that is, the employed and the unemployed, the informal sector employment and informal employment, retrenchments, the number of working children, the detrimental effects of work on children, and the living conditions in general. 

## What does the ZWE LFS survey cover?

The ZWE LFS is nationally representative. The sampling frame used for the LFS was the Zimbabwe Master Sample developed by the then Central Statistical Office after the 2002 Population Census. Except for Harare and Bulawayo, each of the other eight provinces was stratified into four strata according to land use: Communal Lands, Large Scale Commercial Farming Areas (LSCFA), Urban and Semi-Urban Areas, and Small-Scale Commercial Farming Areas (SSCFA) and Resettlement Areas.  Harare and Bulawayo formed one urban stratum which gave a total of 34 strata.

| Year	| # of Households	| # of Individuals|
| :-------	| :--------		| :--------	|
| 2011	| 9359	| 39,798 |
| 2014	| 9759	| 40,527 |
| 2019	| N/A*	| 39,126 |

*The household data for 2019 is yet to be confirmed by the NSO.

## Where can the data be found?

The microdata from 2011, 2014 and 2019 LFS is available through the ZWE statistics [bureau catalogue](https://nada.zimstat.co.zw/index.php/catalog). Documentation is available in the data catalogue. 

## What is the sampling procedure?
The survey used a two-stage sample design with EAs as the first and households as the second-stage sampling units. In total 400 EAs were selected with probability proportional to size (PPS), the measure of size being the number of households enumerated in the 2002 Population Census. The selection of the EAs was a systematic one-stage operation, carried out independently for each of the 34 strata.

## What is the geographic significance level?
The survey is significant at the province level for the years 2011 to 2019. At times it is dissaggregated by gender but there is no information at the urban/rural level by province.

## Other Noteworthy aspects

### Change in ICLS definition

See the following [page](Support/B%-%Country%Survey%Details/ZWE/LFS/ICLS_change) for details about ICLS definition changes that affect industry categories. The change applies from 2019 onwards.

### No Household IDs 

Household IDs (HHID) cannot be created for any quarter because the raw data does not contain identificators. The data is only identifiable randomly at the household level.
