# Introduction to the Indian Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS)

- [What is the IND PLFS?](#what-is-the-ind-plfs)
- [What does the PLFS cover?](#what-does-the-plfs-cover)
- [Where can the data be found?](#where-can-the-data-be-found)
- [What is the sampling procedure?](#what-is-the-sampling-procedure)
- [What is the significance level?](#what-is-the-geographic-significance-level)
- [Other noteworthy aspects](#other-noteworthy-aspects)

## What is the IND PLFS?

Text

## What does the PLFS cover?

Text

| Year	| # of Households	| # of Individuals	|
| :------:	| :-------:		| :-------:	 	|
| 2017	| 111,111		| 999,999		|
| 2018	| 111,111		| 999,999		|
| 2019	| 111,111		| 999,999		|

## Where can the data be found?

Text

## What is the sampling procedure?

Text

## What is the geographic significance level?

The official reports detail results jointly by sex, sector (urban or rural), and state. That is, the unemployment rate of urban women in Madhya Pradesh can be safely reported.

## Other noteworthy aspects

### Differences in methodology with respect to the EUS

The PLFS was preceded by the Employment and Unemployment Survey (EUS) covering the years 1983 to 2011. The questionnaires are nearly identical and cover also 12-month and 7-day labour market recall details (i.e., the definitions described in the next subsection still hold). Moreover, the design is also a two-stage stratified sample, with census villages and urban blocks working as PSUs and households as SSUs.

The main difference, however, lies in the stratification at the second stage. While EUS stratified households by relative income, PLFS stratifies them by the “*number of members in the households having level of general education as secondary (10th standard) or above*”.

The report on the first PLFS from 2017 compares the sampling methodologies for the last EUS round to the first PLFS one. The particular details are on [pages 6 to 10 of the report](/Support/Country%20Survey%20Details/IND/EUS/utilities/AR_PLFS_2017.pdf).

### Coding of industry and occupation codes

Text

### Changes in states over time

Text

### Definitions of employment over recall periods

Text

### Definitions of wage information

Text

## Impact of the COVID-19 crisis on the data

Text