# Introduction to Gambia (GMB) Labour Force Survey (LFS)

-   [What is the CCC survey?](#what-is-the-gmb-lfs)
-   [What does the CCC survey cover?](#what-does-the-gmb-lfs)
-   [Where can the data be found?](#where-can-the-data-be-found)
-   [What is the sampling procedure?](#what-is-the-sampling-procedure)
-   [What is the significance level?](#what-is-the-geographic-significance-level)
-   [Other noteworthy aspects](#other-noteworthy-aspects)

## What is the GMB LFS?

The Gambia Labour Force Survey (GLFS) is the comprehensive labour force survey of The Gambia. GLFS 2022-23 is the third    survey, following the 2012 and 2018 editions. It is conducted by The Gambia Bureau of Statistics (GBoS).

## What does the GMB LFS cover? 

The Gambia Labour Force Survey (GLFS) collects labour market information and other socio-economic data required for policy formulation and decision making in planning processes. Currently, we only have information from the 2018 and 2022 surveys. The harmonized GLFS years and sample sizes for the GLD are:


| Year | \# of Households | \# of Individuals |
|:-----|:-----------------|:------------------|
| 2018 | 5,985            | 57,792            |
| 2022 | 6,595            | 63,241            |

## Where can the data be found? 

The 2022-23 survey microdata is free and publicly available on  [The Gambia Bureau of Statistics (GBoS)](https://www.gbosdata.org/downloads/132-the-2022-23-glfs). The 2018 survey microdata is publicly available for download in [World Bank Microdata Library](https://microdata.worldbank.org/index.php/catalog/3584/get-microdata). Please log in or register for a free account. Both websites also provide all necessary documentation. 

## What is the sampling procedure?

The GLFS uses a two-stage stratified cluster sampling design.

The 2018 manual (see document *The Gambia Labour Force Survey
(GLFS 2018) Analytical Report* on the 2018 documentation site) outlines the sampling procedure as:



``` 
  A Master Sample Frame designed for conducting household surveys was used for the  sample selection. This frame is obtained from 
  the 2013 Population and Housing Census data adjusted for the expected growth rate based on parameters estimated from the Integrated 
  Household Survey 2015/16 data. In the first stage, EAs were independently selected from the sample frame with Probability Proportional 
  to Size (PPS) applied within each stratum the 8 Local Government Areas (LGAs). The EAs were selected as primary sampling units (PSUs) 
  at the first stage of the sampling, since a new listing of households can be conducted in each sampled EA to update the frame for selecting 
  the households at the second sampling stage.
```

## What is the geographic significance level? 

The official reports detail results at the national, urban and rural areas, and at Local Government Areas (LGAs) levels.

The country is divided into eight LGAs: Banjul, Kanifing, Brikama, Mansakonko, Kerewan, Kuntaur, 
Janjanbureh and Basse. Settlements in Banjul and Kanifing are entirely urban.

## Other noteworthy aspects 

### Comparability of the Gambia Labour Force Surveys

The GLD codes the harmonization’s variables based on the ``` lstatus ```  concept used in the survey. The questionnaire for the 2022-23 Gambia Labour Force Survey underwent significant changes in employment definition compared to the 2018 version to incorporate the latest international statistical standards on labor (i.e., 19th and 20th ICLS). Therefore, the survey findings are not comparable with those from the 2018 GLFS. Precise details are covered in a separate [document](employment_definitions.md).


### Education In Gambia

In The Gambia, education is structured into five stages: lower basic, upper basic, secondary school, and then undergraduate and graduate levels at the university. The table below illustrates the average duration, in years/grades, of each stage. Vocational and Diploma levels were considered as higher than secondary but not university. See [isced 2011 for Gambia](https://uis.unesco.org/sites/default/files/documents/isced_2011_mapping_en_gambia_0.xlsx)

| Education level           | Grade or Year    |
|:--------------------------|:-----------------|
| Early Childhood Education | Nursery 1 to 4   |
| Primary                   | Grade 1 to 6     |
| Lower Secondary           | Grade 7 to 9     |
| Upper Secondary           | Grade 10 to 12   |
| Vocational                | 1 to 2 years     |
| Diploma                   | 1 to 3 years     |
| Higher(BSc/ACCA/MSc/PhD)  | 1 to 12 years    |


