# Introduction to the Indian Employment and Unemployment Survey (EUS)

- [What is the IND EUS?](#what-is-the-ind-eus)
- [What does the EUS cover?](#what-does-the-eus-cover)
- [Where can the data be found?](#where-can-the-data-be-found)
- [What is the sampling procedure?](#what-is-the-sampling-procedure)
- [What is the significance level?](#what-is-the-geographic-significance-level)
- [Other noteworthy aspects](#other-noteworthy-aspects)

## What is the IND EUS?

The EUS is the national comprehensive labour force survey, carried out by the [National Sample Survey](http://www.mospi.nic.in/national-sample-survey-nss). It was implemented 10 times from 1983 to 2011. All surveys ran from July of the first year to June of the following (e.g., July 1983 to June 1984) except for the [60th round](http://microdata.gov.in/nada43/index.php/catalog/106) which ran from January 2004 to June 2004. 

## What does the EUS cover?

The EUS was implemented 10 times between 1983covers household characteristics, individual demographic and education characteristics of respondents, as well as labour market information both over the past 12 months and over the 7 days prior to interview. Additionally, different iterations of the EUS have added modules on migration, household expenditure, and recent changes in employment. For example, only the 1983, 1987, 1999, and 2007 surveys contain a migration module.
The years 1987 to 2011 have been harmonized to GLD standard (1983 is in the works). The aforementioned 60th round from January to June 2004 was not harmonized as the 61st round took place from July 2004 to June 2005 and is in line with the other surveys and covers the same year. 

The below table shows the survey years harmonized and the size of the sample in terms of households and individuals.


| Year	| # of Households	| # of Individuals	|
| :------:	| :-------:		| :-------:	 	|
| 1983	| 120,847		| 623,446		|
| 1987	| 129,060		| 667,804		|
| 1993	| 115,409		| 564,740		|
| 1999	| 165,352		| 819,011		|
| 2004	| 124,680		| 602,833		|
| 2005	| 78,879		| 377,377		|
| 2007	| 125,578		| 572,254		|
| 2009	| 100,957		| 459,784		|
| 2011	| 101,724		| 456,999		|

## Where can the data be found?

The microdata are free and publicly available on the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation’s (MOSPI) [National Data Archive of microdata](http://microdata.gov.in/nada43/index.php/catalog/EUE). The website also provides all necessary documentation.

## What is the sampling procedure?

The EUS uses a stratified two stage sampling procedure. The exact details are given in the annual reports of each survey (e.g., which year’s census was used to draw the primary sampling units). For precise details please review these. The following is a general introduction to the methodology.
For the EUS, the primary sampling units (PSUs) are, in rural areas, the census villages, in urban areas the blocks of the [Urban Frame Survey](http://mospi.nic.in/urban-frame-surveyufs). Each kind of PSU is stratified by population size. Rural PSUs are drawn with probability proportional to size while urban PSUs are drawn with simple random sampling without replacement.
The secondary sampling units (SSUs) are the households living in the PSUs. Earlier EUS are designed with 10 households to be selected per PSU, later surveys have only 8 households per PSU. Households are stratified by relative affluence of the households, as classified, for example, by the monthly per capita expenditure. Households were chosen, within second stage strata by simple random sampling without replacement.

## What is the geographic significance level?

The official reports detail results jointly by sex, sector (urban or rural), and state. That is, the unemployment rate of urban women in Madhya Pradesh can be safely reported.

## Other noteworthy aspects

### Difference from reported population
Sample sizes and expanded population (that is the total population estimated using the weights) are compared to the reported data by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MOSPI) for all years. They match exactly the published numbers except for 1999. 

The table below shows the difference between published data and the data in the GLD harmonization. Note that MOSPI reports expanded population only to the nearest hundred, rounding by the next number (i.e., 427,149 would be rounded to 1, not to 427,100, not 427,200).

| Unit			        | GLD Data	    | Published Data	|
| :------:			    | :------:		| :------:			|
| Sample size – Rural	| 509,778	    | 509,779		|
|Expanded pop – Rural	| 686,881,988	| 686,880,900		|
|Sample size - Urban	| 309,233	    | 309,234		|
|Expanded pop – Urban	| 234,107,489	| 234,107,000		|

The differences are a single individual in each of the rural and the urban sample, in the hundreds in the case of expanded population - for a country of about a billion people at the time (1999). The harmonization team has tried to identify and correct this difference but failed to locate it. The differences are believed to be too small to impact the validity of any conclusions drawn from the data in a significant way. The inability to match precisely published numbers is nonetheless to note.

### Differences in methodology with respect to the PLFS

The EUS was followed by the Periodic Labour Force Survey, whose first implementation took place in 2017. The questionnaires are nearly identical and cover also 12-month and 7-day labour market recall details (i.e., the definitions described in the next subsection still hold). Moreover, the design is also a two-stage stratified sample, with census villages and urban blocks working as PSUs and households as SSUs.
The main difference, however, lies in the stratification at the second stage. While EUS stratified households by relative income, PLFS stratifies them by the “*number of members in the households having level of general education as secondary (10th standard) or above*”.
The report on the first PLFS from 2017 compares the sampling methodologies for the last EUS round to the first PLFS one. The particular details are on [pages 6 to 10 of the report](utilities/AR_PLFS_2017.pdf).

### Coding of industry and occupation codes

The EUS codes occupation based on the Indian National Occupation classification (NOC) and industry based on the National Industry classification. Different survey editions use different iterations of the NOC and NIC, which in turn lead to different mappings to the International Standard Classification of Occupations (ISCO) and International Standard Industrial Classification (ISIC). 
The details on the process of creating the correspondence between national and international classifications [are covered here in a separate document](Correspondence_National_International_Classifications.md). The table below shows the overview of the underlying version of the national classification and what version of the international they have been matched to.

| Year of survey	| NCO version	| ISCO version	| NIC version	| ISIC version	|
| :----:		| :----:	| :----:	| :----:	| :----:	|
| 1987			| NCO 1968	| ISCO-88	| NIC 1970	| ISIC-2	|
| 1993			| NCO 1968	| ISCO-88	| NIC 1987	| ISIC-2	|
| 1999			| NCO 1968	| ISCO-88	| NIC 1998	| ISIC-3	|
| 2004			| NCO 1968	| ISCO-88	| NIC 1998	| ISIC-3	|
| 2005			| NCO 1968	| ISCO-88	| NIC 2004	| ISIC-3.1	|
| 2007			| NCO 2004	| ISCO-88	| NIC 2004	| ISIC-3.1	|
| 2009			| NCO 2004	| ISCO-88	| NIC 2004	| ISIC-3.1	|
| 2011			| NCO 2004	| ISCO-88	| NIC 2008	| ISIC-4	|


### Changes in states over time

In the year 1987, Daman and Diu was split off from Goa and in 2000 three new states were created: Chhattisgarh out of districts previously part of Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand (formerly Uttaranchal) out of districts previously part of Uttar Pradesh, and Jharkhand out of districts previously part of Bihar.

The details of this process are [covered further in a separate document](Changes_States_And_State_Codes_Over_Time.md). 
The 1999 survey (NSS round 55) started in July 1999 and ended in June 2000 and is the last to use the old state definitions. Thus, surveys before 1993 have 31 distinct state codes, surveys between 1993 and 1999 have 32 distinct state codes, while surveys from 2004 have under `subnatid1`.


### Definitions of employment over recall periods

The EUS does not directly ask respondents about their employment but rather asks about *usual principal activity* and their *subsidiary economic activity*. In such a situation, a full-time university student who works on the weekends at a petrol station, for example, would classify their principal activity as student. If we were to use only principal activity, we would code this individual as out of the labour force, missing the fact that they are employed as per their subsidiary economic activity.

Moreover, the EUS asks employment questions both over the 12-month and the 7-day recall period. Some employment codes (e.g., differentiating between unemployed who is looking for a job and available to work or just available to work but not looking), are only available for one of the recall periods. 

The details of these definitions are [covered separately in another document](Definitions_of_employment_over_recall_periods.md)
