# Introduction to Sri Lanka (LKA) national Labour Force Survey (LFS)

- [What is the LKA LFS](#what-is-the-lka-lfs)
- [What does the LKA LFS cover?](#what-does-the-lka-lfs-cover)
- [Where can the data be found?](#where-can-the-data-be-found)
- [What is the sampling procedure?](#what-is-the-sampling-procedure)
- [What is the geographic significance level?](#what-is-the-geographic-significance-level)
- [Other noteworthy aspects](#other-noteworthy-aspects)

## What is the LKA LFS?

The Sri Lankan Labour Force Survey (LFS) is a household-based sample survey conducted by the Department of Census & Statistics under the National Household Survey Program. Starting in 1990, the LKA LFS has been conducted quarterly every year with the aim to measure the levels and trends of employment, unemployment and labour force in Sri Lanka. 


## What does the LKA LFS cover?

The LKA LFS mainly covers detailed information on demographic details, including age, sex, marital status, and location, education, and labour market activities. Economic activities such as employment status, work hours and payment were collected in two reference periods: 1) "current" or "last-7-day" activities and 2) "usual" status or the "past 12-month" reference period. The LKA LFS does not have a specific migration section, though it has a question about birth place. Yet it cannot be sufficiently deemed as a an indication of migration.   

GLD harmonization of LKA LFS covers year 1992 to 2021, 23 years in total. Years and sample size of LFS harmonized for GLD are:

| **Year**	| **# of Households**	| **# of Individuals**	| **Expanded Population**	| **Officially Reported Sample Size(# HH)**	| **Officially Reported Population (# Individuals)** |
| :------:	| :-------:		| :-------:	 	| :-------:	 	| :-------:	| :-------:	|
| 1992 | 18,828        | 91,624      |  12,067,012  |   10,080   | 12,058,463|
| 1993 | 6,763         | 36,693      |  12,278,057  |   8,000   | 12,278,055|
| 1994 | 6,548         | 34,997      |  12,493,005  |   10,000   | 12,492,850|
| 1995 | 6,511         | 34,148      |  12,736,185  |   N/A      | 12,736,185|
| 1996 | 15,116        | 68,489      |  12,834,145  |   16,000   | 12,831,240|
| 1998 | 13,431        | 60,263      |  12,891,187  |   16,000   | 12,881,790|
| 1999 | 13,402        | 59,480      |  13,171,551  |   16,000   | 13,169,250|
| 2000 | 13,319        | 58,604      |  13,566,897  |   16,000   | 13,564,660|
| 2001 | 10,205        | 44,610      |  13,873,418  |   15,915   | 13,870,479|
| 2002 | 14,161        | 58,680      |  14,201,607  |   16,000   | 14,201,396|
| 2003 | 16,235        | 67,204      |  15,651,485  |   16,000   | 15,651,479   |
| 2004 | 22,579        | 93,252      |  16,727,635  |   20,000   | 16,593,431   |
| 2006 | 17,208        | 68,931      |  14,838,834  |   18,200   | 14,833,802   |
| 2007 | 17,055        | 68,186      |  15,045,605  |   18,390   | 15,047,882   |
| 2008 | 18,596        | 73,489      |  16,327,367  |   20,260   | 16,319,065   |
| 2011 | 14,408        | 56,172      |  17,909,455  |   17,620   | 17,909,743   |
| 2012 | 16,336        | 62,298      |  17,915,383  |   19,420   | 17,915,383   |
| 2013 | 20,785        | 79,347      |  16,527,722  |   25,000   | 16,359,761**  |
| 2014 | 21,446        | 81,385      |  15,284,022  |   25,000   | 16,531,768**  |
| 2015 | 21,895        | 82,800      |  15,438,706  |   25,000   | 15,281,945**  |
| 2019 | 21,696        | 82,800      |  16,424,016  |   25,750   | 16,424,016**  |
| 2020 | 21,149        | 77,251      |  16,424,016  |   25,750   | 16,739,396**  |
| 2021 | 21,534        | 77,869      |  17,133,659  |   25,750   | 17,133,659**  |

Note: 
1) Years before 2013 report population aged 10 and above whereas years since 2013 report 15 and abover (years marked with **). 
2) The annual report of 1995 could not be found so the number of household reported officially for this year is unknown.  

## Where can the data be found?

Through free registration, the data is publicly available for years from 1992 to 2020 on [*Lanka Datta*](http://nada.nso.gov.lk/index.php/home) yet with only a limited sample size of 25% of the full data set. Although Lanka Datta claims that with registration, LFS can be downloaded 100% of the original raw data set, trying to download each year's LFS confirms that only 25% of the original data set can be downloaded.       

## What is the sampling procedure?

The sampling procedure of LKA LFS is a stratified two-stage probability sample design, The primary sampling units (PSU) are census blocks; and the secondary sampling units are the housing units. Although the number of PSU selected per quarter varies through years (i.e. 252 PSUs per quarter in 1992 whereas 2,250 in 2007) depending on the Census of Population and Housing in past years, the survey usually select 10 housing units per PSU per quarter. 

Since LKA LFS is a quarterly survey, it was conducted every three months and would take two months to conduct interview and collect data. So most of the years, except those without complete four quarters, have 8 categories of "month of interview" variable in the raw dataset: two months for each quarter and four quarters in total. Month 1 and 2 would be coded as `wave 1`, for example.

Four years out of the total 23 years do not cover all four quarters. Among the four years, 2011, 2012 and 2013 did not conduct the fourth quarter as the country's office of statistics was occupied with preparation for the population census. 2001 does not have the third quarter and the reason is not stated. 

## What is the geographic significance level?

The LKA LFS is representative at the urban/rural division of each district level. 

Note that in the raw data the `sector` variable originally has three categories: urban, rural, and estate. An estate sector in Sri Lanka is actually a plantation sector. An estate sector consists of all plantations which are 20 acres or more
in extent and ten or more resident labourers. All areas other than urban and estate comprise the rural sector [(_Sinnathurai, V., Březinová, O., 2012_)](utilities/Sinnathurai_V_Březinová_O_2012.pdf). We classified estate as rural in our harmonization, considering the level of poverty, development, population and housing factors. However, coding urban/rural status in this way resulted a much higher proportion of urban population that is as twice as the numbers in ILO and World Bank Development Indicators in in 1992-1995 (i.e., 40% in our harmonized data versus 18% in other sources). To make the case more convoluted, most of the LKA national annual reports of LFS 1992-2021 report a 44% ~ 50% of rural labour force participation, compared to 14% ~ 18% in our harmonized data as well as in other sources. This mismatch seems to be caused by the ill-defined urban-rural definition. More discussion of urban-rural definition of LKA in the next section "Other noteworthy aspects - Urban/rural status".        


## Other noteworthy aspects  

### Changes in survey structure throughout the years

1992-2004 Two reference periods
2006-2008     Only one reference period, the past 7-day reference period; literacy added whereas training information removed 



### Coding of industry and occupation codes




### Regional exclusion of Northern and Eastern Provinces

 
 

### Urban/rural status






### Duplicates in early years and household heads re-assignment





### Labour force participation and employment statistics comparison with LKA national annual reports

    
