# Introduction to [Full Name of Survey] ([Survey Acronym)]

- [What is the CCC survey?](#what-is-the-ccc-survey-acronym)
- [What does the CCC survey cover?](#what-does-the-ccc-survey-acronym-cover)
- [Where can the data be found?](#where-can-the-data-be-found)
- [What is the sampling procedure?](#what-is-the-sampling-procedure)
- [What is the significance level?](#what-is-the-geographic-significance-level)
- [Other noteworthy aspects](#other-noteworthy-aspects)

## What is the [CCC] [survey Acronym]?

Short introduction to what the survey is, meaning a paragraph of a few lines. Example:

The Indian Employment and Unemployment Survey (EUS) is the Indian Labour Force Survey run as part to India’s National Sample Survey series from 1987 to 2011.

## What does the [CCC] [survey Acronym] cover?

Short paragraph on the topics covered as well as information on the years and the sample sizes. One way to generate a table is to use the [Individual and Household ID tabulator tool in R](../Z%20-%20Other%20Tools/Global/unique_hh_ind_obs.R) Example:

The Indian EUS is a labour force survey collecting information on demographic details (age, sex, location), education (both academic and vocational), labour market activities over the past 12 months, as well as time use and activities over the previous 7 days. Some years contain further information on consumption expenditure. The years and sample size of EUS harmonized for GLD are:

| Year	| # of Households	| # of Individuals	|
| :-------	| :--------		| :--------	 	|
| 1987	| 129,060		| 667,804		|
| …	| …			| …			|
| 2011	| 101,724		| 456,999		|

## Where can the data be found?

Paragraph on the source of the data and the documentation. If publicly available for download refer to this explicitly. If the data can only be circulated within the World Bank, make a note of this. If the data, can only be used after filling out a special data request form explain so. Say to get in touch with Jobs Group (cannot provide an email address for now, need to create one) – only WB staff should get in touch, though. Example:

The microdata are free and publicly available on the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation’s (MOSPI) [National Data Archive of microdata](http://microdata.gov.in/nada43/index.php/catalog/EUE). The website also provides all necessary documentation.

## What is the sampling procedure?

A paragraph with an overview of the procedure. It is OK to paste an introductory paragraph from the documentation with reference. If the procedure varies over time make a brief note of it. Example:

The EUS uses a stratified multi-stage design. The 2009 manual (see document *Introduction Concepts, Definitions and Procedures* under the ["Other Materials" section of the 2009 documentation site](http://microdata.gov.in/nada43/index.php/catalog/124/related_materials)) outlines the sampling procedure as:

    A stratified multi-stage design has been adopted for the 66th round survey. The first stage units (FSU) will be the 
    2001 census villages (Panchayat wards in case of Kerala) in the rural sector and Urban Frame Survey (UFS) blocks in 
    the urban sector. The ultimate stage units (USU) will be households in both the sectors. In case of large FSUs, one
    intermediate stage of sampling will be the selection of two hamlet-groups (hgs)/ sub-blocks (sbs) from each
    rural/ urban FSU.

Note that, even though the sampling logic is consitent over time, there are changes over time (e.g.m the blocks come from different censuses).

## What is the geographic significance level?

Brief outline of to what level information in the survey can be aggregated and produce statistically significant results. Example:

The official reports detail results by gender, sector (urban or rural), and state. That is, the unemployment rate of urban women in Madhya Pradesh can be safely reported.

## Other noteworthy aspects

Any other items that are specific to the survey, that should be highlighted but that may be different from one survey to the next. For example, why you picked only a particlar quarter instead of appending all four. Or particulars about changes in some administrative areas over time. Or how you mapped to ISCO or ISIC, yet if this takes too long, it may be best to create a further document and link to it, as stated below.

### List items as needed and be brief - if longer, refer to other, explicit documents

These individual additional points should be about one to two paragraphs long. If it takes longer consider whether you want to spend the time writing such a long text. It is noble of you, but if you already gave readers and intro, it may be enough and your time is better used elsewhere. If you still consider it is important, you may wish to write a separate text. Make a brief intro here and refer people to the longer text. The point below is an example of this.

### ISIC mapping example (MEX)

The Mexican INEGI codes industry in the ENE based on the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS). This system is very different from the international ISIC format. To map from NAICS to ISIC (versions 3.1 and 4) to code `industrycat_isic`, a special procedure is needed. This process is detailed in a [separate document, available here](../B%20-%20Country%20Survey%20Details/MEX/ENOE/Correspondence_NAICS_ISIC.md).

### Other Documentation Files 
If we want to link to other documentation files in the same directory, the issue is that we cannot use the permalink web address because eventually the document will change branches, and the link will change. However, GitHub have allowed for [this solution](https://github.blog/2013-01-31-relative-links-in-markup-files/), which involves relative linking. As long as the Introduction and linked files are in the same directory, simply follow the example below and the relative link will always link to the file no matter what branch the files are on: 
- [GLD Code Template](GLD_Harmonization_Template.do)
