
# Introduction to the Nigeria (NGA) Labour Force Survey (LFS)

- [What is the NGA LFS](#what-is-the-nga-lfs)
- [What does the NGA LFS cover?](#what-does-the-nga-lfs-cover)
- [Where can the data be found?](#where-can-the-data-be-found)
- [What is the sampling procedure?](#what-is-the-sampling-procedure)
- [What is the geographic significance level?](#what-is-the-geographic-significance-level)
- [Other noteworthy aspects](#other-noteworthy-aspects)


## What is the NGA LFS?

The NGA LFS is a quarterly survey collected by the Nigeria National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). The data was first launched in Q4 2022 as a successor to the household labor force survey, which was has been conducted
since the Statistics Act of 2007 was passed. The updated survey has adopted the ICLS-19 standards, improved household listing processes, organized continuous fieldwork, and utilized advanced technology for real-time data monitoring to enhance labor market statistics.


## What does the NGA LFS cover?

The NGA LFS contains data on the labor force (employed and unemployed) and the household demographic and geographic characteristics, e.g., gender, age, education,and economic activity.

The harmonized years and sample sizes used in the GLD harmonization are:

| Year	| # of Households	| # of Individuals	|
| :-------	| :--------		| :--------	 	|
| 2022 (Q4 only)	| 76,802	| 33,449	|
| 2023 (Q1-Q3 only)	| 77,215	| 331,005	|


## Where can the data be found?

TThe LFS data for Nigeria can be found on the [Nigeria BLS Microdata Catalogue site](https://www.nigerianstat.gov.ng/nada/index.php/catalog). To obtain the data, users need to create and account and then request the data, by filling out the forms that will appear on the site. The World Bank has been granted access to the datasets, if you work for the World Bank Group, kindly contact the Jobs Group with a formal request for access to [gld@worldbank.org](gld@worldbank.org).

## What is the sampling procedure?

The LFS is designed following the two-stage stratified sampling procedure.


## What is the geographic significance level?

The data covers a sample of urban and rural in all egyptian governorates (27 or 29 ). Each year the list of geographic locations below governorates changes to dismiss or include existent cities or new cities. Below a summary of the changes that the user may encounter. 

| Year	| # of governorates (subnatid1)	|
| :-------	| :--------		|
| 2006-2008	| 27	|
| 2009-2010	| 29	|
| 2011-2019	| 27 |

| Year	| # Municipal divisions (subnatid2)	|
| :-------	| :--------		|
| 2006-2007	| 269	|
| 2008 | 273 |
| 2009	| 271 |
| 2010	| 299 |
| 2012,2014	| 295 |
| 2013,2017	| 293 |
| 2015	| 294 |
| 2018	| 305 |
| 2011, 2016, 2019	| N/A |

## Other noteworthy aspects


### Definition of concept of employment

Since the passing of the [resolution concerning statistics of work, employment and labour underutilization](https://www.ilo.org/global/statistics-and-databases/standards-and-guidelines/resolutions-adopted-by-international-conferences-of-labour-statisticians/WCMS_230304/lang--en/index.htm) in 2013 at the 19th International Conference of Labour Statisticians (ICLS) surveys are at risk of a series break due to the change in the concept of employment.

In short, the ICLS 19 resolution restricts employment to *work performed for others in exchange for pay or profit*, meaning that own consumption work (e.g., subsistence agriculture or building housing for oneself) are not counted as employment.

The GLD codes the harmonization’s `lstatus` variable based on the concept used in the survey. This has been the case for all years in the Rwanda LFS. Nonetheless, it possible to alter the code so that it matches the previous definition. The precise details are covered in a [separate document here](Converting%20between%20ICLS%20Definitions.md)


### ISCO and ISIC Classification

The data already included the occupation and economic activities in the ISCO-08 and ISIC version 4, respectively. 

### Missing data on wages

The GLD variable for wages , `wage_no_compen` and `wage_no_compen_2` are not coded in the Nigeria LFS even when wage information is available in the raw data. There are two reasons for this:

First, the wage variable in the raw data combines wages for both primary and secondary occupation. The GLD variables make a distinction between the wages for the primary occupation, `wage_no_compen` and `wage_no_compen_2`

Second, the variable in the raw data is a categorical variable representing a range of values, while the GLD requires the wage variables to be continuous.

However, it is possible to code `wage_no_compen` by assuming the midpoint value for the each range. 

### Weight variable

The weight variable cannot be used to generate expanded population estimates as these are probability weights. 

### Defining labor force status


