# Introduction to Brazilian National Household Sample Survey (PNAD)

- [What is the BRA PNAD](#what-is-the-bra-pnad)
- [What does the BRA PNAD cover?](#what-does-the-bra-pnad-cover)
- [Where can the data be found?](#where-can-the-data-be-found)
- [What is the sampling procedure?](#what-is-the-sampling-procedure)
- [What is the significance level?](#what-is-the-geographic-significance-level)
- [Other noteworthy aspects](#other-noteworthy-aspects)

## What is the [BRA] [PNAD]?

The Brazilian National Household Sample Survey (PNAD) is the Brazilian annual Labour Force Survey run by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) from 1976 to 2015, and regularly from 1981 to 2015, with few gaps (1991, 1994, 2000, 2010), mostly related to years when the Census was carried out.

## What does the BRA PNAD cover?

The Brazilian PNAD is a labour force survey collecting information on demographic details (age, sex, location), education (academic), labour market activities in the reference week (and in the previous 12 months starting in 1992). After 1992, there was also data on fertility and marriage, and in some particular years, health and nutrition. The years and sample size of PNAD harmonized for GLD are:

| year | # Households | # Individuals | # Weighted Individuals |
|------|--------------|---------------|------------------------|
| 1981 | 103961       | 482611        | 119691556              |
| 1983 | 114186       | 512016        | 125743397              |
| 1984 | 116409       | 514866        | 128265206              |
| 1985 | 119651       | 523632        | 133334079              |
| 1986 | 65446        | 289783        | 130896545              |
| 1987 | 68739        | 299704        | 133401174              |
| 1988 | 69066        | 298368        | 141382232              |
| 1989 | 70834        | 301312        | 138365279              |
| 1990 | 73200        | 306429        | 141580018              |
| 1992 | 78321        | 317355        | 146003471              |
| 1993 | 80167        | 322205        | 148216677              |
| 1995 | 85270        | 334263        | 152374603              |
| 1996 | 84948        | 331264        | 154360589              |
| 1997 | 89939        | 346269        | 156128003              |
| 1998 | 90913        | 344975        | 158232252              |
| 1999 | 93959        | 352393        | 160336471              |
| 2001 | 103240       | 378836        | 172741526              |
| 2002 | 105749       | 385415        | 175066933              |
| 2003 | 107596       | 384834        | 177360349              |
| 2004 | 112471       | 399354        | 183439253              |
| 2005 | 116204       | 408148        | 185651425              |
| 2006 | 118333       | 410241        | 187851823              |
| 2007 | 117601       | 399964        | 189953924              |
| 2008 | 117895       | 391868        | 191999849              |
| 2009 | 120910       | 399387        | 193995123              |
| 2011 | 111763       | 358919        | 197825297              |


## Where can the data be found?

The microdata are free and publicly available on the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) [download website]( https://www.ibge.gov.br/estatisticas/downloads-estatisticas.html). The section where it can be found is called ‘Trabalho e Rendimento’ (Employment and Income).

Besides, many instructions on downloading and understanding PNAD idiosyncrasies can be found on [PUC – Datazoom](http://www.econ.puc-rio.br/datazoom/english/pnad.html).

## What is the sampling procedure?

First, a geographic stratification is carried out, splitting the country into 36 strata. Eighteen federation units each form an independent stratum for sampling purposes. The other nine federation units are split into other eighteen strata, since in each of them two strata are defined: one with all the municipalities and pseudo-municipalities of the metropolitan region based in the capital, and the other with the other municipalities.

In the strata formed by the metropolitan regions, the sampling plan is stratified by municipality or pseudo-municipality and conglomerated in two stages. In this case, the primary sampling units (UPAs) are the census tracts. The secondary sampling units (USAs) are the households. Within each municipality or pseudo-municipality, the selection of sectors is made using systematic sampling with probability proportional to the number of households, from the last available Demographic Census. Before selecting the sectors in a municipality or pseudo-municipality, the sectors are ordered according to the situation (urban, rural) and geographic code, leading to an implicit geographic stratification due to the use of systematic sampling.

Some municipalities considered large in terms of population but which are located outside the metropolitan region are included in the sample. Such municipalities are called self-representative and are also considered selection strata, where the UPAs are the census sectors and the USAs are the households. In the geographic strata formed by municipalities that are neither self-representative nor located in metropolitan regions, the PNAD sampling plan is conglomerated in three stages. The primary sampling units are the municipalities, the secondary units are the sectors and the tertiary sampling units are the households. These municipalities are called non-self-representative. The non-self-representative municipalities are stratified by size and geographic proximity, seeking to form strata with approximately equal total population, according to data from the last available Demographic Census.

In each of the strata of non-self-representative municipalities, municipalities are selected through a systematic draw with probability proportional to the population existing at the time of the Demographic Census. In the second stage, the selection of sectors is made within each municipality contained in the sample of the first stage, using the same method already described for the selection of sectors in the strata of metropolitan regions or self-representative municipalities.
Note that, even though the sampling logic is consistent over time, there are changes over time (e.g.m the blocks come from different censuses).

More information is available on IBGE [methodological notes](https://ftp.ibge.gov.br/Trabalho_e_Rendimento/Pesquisa_Nacional_por_Amostra_de_Domicilios_continua/Notas_metodologicas/notas_metodologicas.pdf).

## What is the geographic significance level?

In 1981, PNAD covered all the national territory, excluding only the rural area of the former Northern Region, which at the time comprised the states of Rondônia, Acre, Amazonas, Roraima, Pará and Amapá. Finally, in 2004, the PNAD was implemented in the rural areas of these states, reaching full coverage of the National Territory.

It should be noted that for the PNADs from 1988 to 1990, the statistics for the North Region did not include the portion corresponding to the current State of Tocantins, having remained in the Mid-West region during this period and only in 1992, for technical reasons, did it start to part of the Northern Region. In these terms, aiming to maintain the homogeneity of the results produced, the statistics presented from 1992 to 2003 for the North Region referred only to its urban portion, not aggregating information from the rural area of the State of Tocantins, being, therefore, given a treatment specific for the expansion of the portion referring to the urban area of the State.

The survey reports statistically representative estimates for the Country, Major Regions, Federation Units (States) and 9 Metropolitan Regions (São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Belém, Recife, Salvador, Belo Horizonte, Curitiba and Porto Alegre).

## Other noteworthy aspects

Starting in 1992, the National Household Sample Survey (PNAD) expanded the concept of work, aiming to capture certain groups of people involved in economic activities that were not previously included in the employed population. Then, IBGE started to consider as employed individuals in an unpaid work no restrictions on the number of hours worked in the week, instead of the 15 hours previously required.

In the 1980s, IBGE would not consider as work, for example, activities carried out by the resident in farming or livestock exclusively for their own consumption. From 1992, those started being included as employed workers, increasing artificially employment numbers, especially in agricultural activities.

### Differences in methodology with respect to the PNADC

The PNAD was followed by the **Continuous** Household Sample Survey (PNADC), whose first implementation took place in 2012. The questionnaires are similar, although with some differences – which are detailed in a separate document. PNADC is collected quarterly, surveying the same household for five rounds. There is an annual edition, both for first and fifth rounds of the survey.

Moreover, the design is also a two-stage stratified sample, with census villages and urban blocks working as PSUs and households as SSUs. However, PNADC, having a larger sample size, can produce statistically significant estimates for all state capitals.
There are also a few differences in the concept of labor and minimum age from which individuals are inquired about their labor market status (10 in PNAD and 14 and PNADC), making the later survey more restrictive on those who are considered employed.

Another important difference is related to the years of study. The National Constitution of 1988 determined the universalization of the right to basic, compulsory and free education, initially from seven to seventeen years old. In 1996, this right was expanded to 6 years old – although in the early years it was not universally observed –, with enrollment at this age taking place in the so-called “literacy grade”, which was not considered a year of study by the IBGE. However, in 2006, compulsory elementary education was established to last 9 years, starting at 6 years of age, incorporating, in practice, the “literacy grade”. The PNADC, therefore, starts to consider this first year as a year of study.

### Coding of industry and occupation codes

The PNAD codes occupation is based on the Brazilian National Occupation classification (CBO) and industry based on the National Industry classification (CNAE). Different survey editions use different iterations of the CBO and CNAE, which in turn lead to different mappings to the International Standard Classification of Occupations (ISCO) and International Standard Industrial Classification (ISIC). The details on the process of creating the correspondence between national and international classifications are covered [here in a separate document for industry classfications](Correspondence%20between%20PNAD%20industry%20classification%20and%20ISIC.md). and [here for occupation classifications](Correspondence%20between%20PNAD%20occupation%20classification%20and%20ISCO.md). 

The tables below show the overview of the underlying version of the national classification and what version of the international they have been matched to.

#### Occupation

| Years     | Classification used in raw data | Target classification | Target depth
|-----------|---------------------------------|-----------------------|--------------|
| 1981/1990 | CBO 1980                        | ISCO 1988             | Two Digits   |
| 1992/2001 | CBO 1991                        | ISCO 1988             | Two Digits   |
| 2002/2011 | CBO Domiciliar (CBO-Dom)        | ISCO 1988             | Two Digits   |

#### Industry

| Year      | Classification used in raw data | Survey | Intermediate classification needed | Intermediate depth | Target classification | Target depth |
|-----------|---------------------------------|--------|------------------------------------|--------------------|-----------------------|--------------|
| 1981/2001 | CNAE 1980/1991                  | PNAD   | CNAE-DOM 1.0                       | Two Digits         | Isic rev 3            | Two Digits   |
| 2002/2011 | CNAE-DOM 1.0                    | PNAD   | --------                           | Two Digits         | Isic rev 3            | Two Digits   |

