Introduction to the CHILEAN HOUSEHOLD SURVEY (Labour section) (CASEN)
================

- [What is the CHL CASEN?](#what-is-the-chl-casen)
- [What does the CHL CASEN cover?](#what-does-the-chl-casen-cover)
- [Where can the data be found?](#where-can-the-data-be-found)
- [What is the sampling procedure?](#what-is-the-sampling-procedure)
- [What is the geographic significance level?](#what-is-the-geographic-significance-level)
- [Other noteworthy aspects](#other-noteworthy-aspects)

## What is the CHL CASEN?

The CASEN is a chilean household surevey that contains sections for employment, education, dwelling and income. The CASEN has been rolling since 1987 until 2017, yet the GLD project harmonized surveys between 1992 and 2017.  

## What does the CHL CASEN cover?

The CHL CASEN includes one labour section that collects information on employment situations of individuals surveyed. It further provides insights in the reasons for taking or not taking a job and the salary situation of the participant. In addition, other sections of CASEN cover demographic details (age, sex, location), education (academic), social security, labour market activities over the past week, as well as working hours and type of economic activities engaged. The years and sample size of CASEN harmonized for GLD are:

| Year	| # of Households	| # of Individuals	|
| :-------	| :--------		| :--------	 	|
| 1990	| 25,793	| 105,189	|
| 1992	| 35,948	| 143,459	|
| 1994	| 45,379	| 178,057	|
| 1996	| 33,636	| 134,262	|
| 1998	| 48,107	| 188,360	|
| 2000	| 65,036	| 252,748	|
| 2003	| 68,153	| 257,077	|
| 2006	| 73,720    | 268,873   |
| 2009	| 71,460    | 246,924 	|
| 2011	| 86,854    | 294,791   |
| 2013	| 66,725    | 218,491   |
| 2015	| 83,887    | 266,968   |
| 2017	| 70,948    | 216,439	  |

## Where can the data be found?

The microdata is free and publicly available on the Ministry of Social Development website. The ministry created a [dedicated website](http://observatorio.ministeriodesarrollosocial.gob.cl/encuesta-casen) that records the results from CASEN, besides it contains complete information to understand the framework of the CASEN. For further information kindly get in touch with the World Bank Jobs Group. 

## What is the sampling procedure?

The ENOE uses a stratified two-stage design. The introductory section of documents from CASEN provides details on the breakdown and goals of the process. The text is in Spanish. Yet, we did a short summary in english to give the user a general idea of the information.  

| Year	|  Description |
| :-------	| :--------		| 
| 1990 - 1994| stratified and random. | 
| 1996 | stratified (geographic with limited stratum), probabilistic, by conglomarates. | 
| 1998 | stratified, probabilistic, by conglomarates.  |
| 2000-2003 | The type of sampling is stratified, by conglomerates and multistage. In each stratum, an independent sample was obtained to represent it, and the set of all of them represents the country.|
| 2006-2009 |the type of sampling is stratified, by compact conglomerates (housing block) and multi-stage.|
| 2011-2017 | probabilistic sample, stratified geographically and by population size, both in urban and rural areas. The selection of the sample is carried out in two or three stages in urban and rural areas.|

Source: 1990-2017 Sampling Design Documentation from the Social Observatory [CASEN]( http://observatorio.ministeriodesarrollosocial.gob.cl/encuesta-casen-2017)

## What is the geographic significance level?

The results are at national, rural, urban, regional, and *cities of interest* levels as well as selected communities. The cities of interest and sizes of cities, however, may vary over time. It is thus important to check the individual methodology reports. The information on the 2017 CASEN can be found under section I1.4 (page 10/191) of [that year's report](http://observatorio.ministeriodesarrollosocial.gob.cl/storage/docs/casen/2017/Diseno_Muestral_Casen_2017_MDS.pdf#page10).

## Other Noteworthy Aspects 

### 2011 survey
The methodology and variable information for the year 2011 is limited compared to other years. In 2011 the INE jointly with the Ministry of Social Development changed the design of the survey. Yet, the output does not provide a clear number of households and individuals surveyed as such the numbers we report are those in the raw dataset but they could be different to the offcial numbers for that year.

### Geographic breakdown
The chilean CASEN uses geographic stratification for the sampling of the survey. In the surveys the highest location level is region, oftentimes labelled with numbers and/or names, the second level is provinces and the third level communities. All years have information for the three levels, yet,  the information for communities is limited and variable every survey year (please refer to the methodology handbook for further details), For instance, the years 2011 and 2013, communities was the second level of details for the surveys and no province informaition available in the raw files. Furthermore, the user should be careful in assuming that there has been geographic changes between survey years if there is athe absence of a province in the labelling, this is because information may be absent but the province in real life exists in the country. For this reason, the GLD team chose to provide information for the user up to the second level, guranteeing consistency at the regional (1st) level.

### Peculiarities of ISCO

Click here for a dedicated page on things to keep in mind while using occupation information from CASEN. 

### Peculiarities of ISIC

Click here for a dedicated page on things to keep in mind while using industry information from CASEN. 

### Who manages CASEN
It is important to note that though the INE is the manager of the survey design and implementation, CASEN is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Social Development and decisions on methodology and changes are handled by the ministry. 

Further information or questions about the microdata in this webpage can be directed to [World Bank GLD Focal Point](mailto:gld@worldbank.org).
