- [Introduction to Mongolia Labor Force Survey (MNG LFS)](#introduction-to-mongolia-labor-force-survey-mng-lfs)
    - [What is the MNG LFS?](#what-is-the-mng-lfs)
    - [What does the MNG LFS cover?](#what-does-the-mng-lfs-cover)
    - [Where can the data be found?](#where-can-the-data-be-found)
    - [What is the sampling procedure?](#what-is-the-sampling-procedure)
    - [What is the significance level?](#what-is-the-significance-level)
    - [Other noteworthy aspects](#other-noteworthy-aspects)

# Introduction to Mongolia Labor Force Survey (MNG LFS)

## What is the MNG LFS?

The Mongolia Labor Force Survey (LFS), initiated by the National Statistics Office of Mongolia in 2002, has been carried out regularly with a shift to a rotation panel design in 2019. Under this design, 75% of the sample from the an earlier round is re-interviewed with the remaining 25% re-sampled. The rotation only lasts for a year, and unlike other LFS where rotation extends to the next LFS year, the Mongolia LFS starts with a new rotation in a new LFS year.

## What does the MNG LFS cover?

The Mongolia LFS is a labor force survey with information on demographic characteristics, education, and labor market activities. The surveyed years and sample sizes used are as follows:

| Year | Individual count | HH count |
|---|---|---|
| 2002 |          49,948  |                      12,787  |
| 2006 |          48,108  |                      12,286 |
| 2007 |          25,300  |                      7,008  |
| 2008 |          24,940  |                      7,008  |
| 2010 |          47,493  |                      12,815 |
| 2011 |          45,358  |                      12,815 |
| 2012 |          45,442  |                      12,815 |
| 2013 |          44,678  |                      12,815 |
| 2014 |          43,664  |                      12,816 |
| 2015 |          30,607  |                      12,816 |
| 2016 |          43,680  |                      12,816 |
| 2017 |          44,414  |                      12,816 |
| 2018 |          44,260  |                      12,816 |
| 2019 |          44,240  |                      5,922  |
| 2020 |          46,934  |                      6,219  |
| 2021 |          46,873  |                      6,157  |

## Where can the data be found?

The datasets are not accessible to the public and researchers have to request the data from the Mongolia National Statistics Office. The World Bank has been granted access to the datasets, if you work or are part of the World Bank Group, kindly contact the Jobs Group with a formal request for access to gld@worldbank.org

## What is the sampling procedure?

The MNG LFS employs a two-stage stratified sampling design to gather representative data on the country's labor force. This sampling methodology involves selecting Primary Sampling Units (PSUs) in the first stage and households within each PSU in the second stage. Both stages employ random selection techniques, ensuring the sample's representativeness.

## What is the significance level?

The official reports detail estimates by area of residence (urban or rural), and the regions in Mongolia.

## Other noteworthy aspects

### Household ID
The datasets received do not contain ID information. In the GLD project, we have created IDs to provide the best user experience based on geographic identifiers. The household ID is formed based on information on the primary sampling unit and the household identification number. 

### Geographic Information
As of the time of writing (July 2023) Mongolia is composed of 21 administrative divisions, known as aimags, and the capital city, Ulaanbaatar.

### Employment: Industry Classification
The Mongolia LFS uses the International Standards for Industrial Classification (ISIC) to identify industries at the 3- or 4- digit level. ISIC version 3.1 is used for the surveys between 2002 and 2011, and from then on, began using ISIC version 4. 

### Employment: Occupation Classification

