
-   [Introduction to Tanzania Integrated Labor Force Survey (TZA ILFS)](#introduction-to-tanzania-integrated-labor-force-survey-tza-ilfs)
    -   [What is the TZA ILFS?](#what-is-the-tza-ilfs)
    -   [What does the TZA ILFS cover?](#what-does-the-tza-ilfs-cover)
    -   [Where can the data be found?](#where-can-the-data-be-found)
    -   [What is the sampling
        procedure?](#what-is-the-sampling-procedure)
    -   [What is the significance
        level?](#what-is-the-significance-level)
    -   [Other noteworthy aspects](#other-noteworthy-aspects)

# Introduction to Tanzania Integrated Labor Force Survey (TZA ILFS)

## What is the TZA ILFS?

The Tanzania (TZA) Integrated Labor Force Survey (ILFS) is a Labor Force Survey conducted by the Tanzania National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). They surveys were conducted in 1990-91, 2000-01, 2006, 2014 and 2020. The harmonization begins with the 2000-01 round where separate surveys have been conducted for Mainland Tanzania (formerly Tanganyika) and the islands of Zanzibar. This has been the practice until 2020 when a unified survey was conducted for both geographic areas.

## What does the TZA ILFS cover?

The TZA ILFS is broader in scope compared to the conventional, periodic LFS. It covers questions on socio-demographic details, disabilities, education, migration, labor market activities in the past 7 days and past 12 months. It also covers questions beyond the scope of the GLD, such as household amenities and asset ownership, health and safety practices, activities in the informal sector, and time use (beginning in 2006). 

The harmonized years and sample sizes used in the GLD harmonization are:

| **Year (Geographic coverage)** | **Households** | **Individuals** |
|--------------------------------|----------------|-----------------|
| 2000-01 (Mainland Tanzania)    | 11,158         | 43,558          |
| 2006 (Mainland Tanzania)       | 16,445         | 72,441          |
| 2006 (Zanzibar)                | 5,479          | 28,277          |
| 2014 (Mainland Tanzania)       | 11,472         | 47,199          |
| 2014 (Zanzibar)                | 6,947          | 36,764          |
| 2020 (Unified)                 | 15,706         | 74,558          |

## Where can the data be found?

The datasets are not accessible to the public and researchers have to request the data from the National Bureau of Statistics. The World Bank has been granted access to the datasets, if you work or are part of the World Bank Group, kindly contact the Jobs Group with a formal request for access to gld@worldbank.org

## What is the sampling procedure?

The ILFS rounds adopted a stratified sampling design. The listing of the villages and enumeration areas, which constitute the primary sampling units, is taken from the National Master Sample.

The first stage determines the primary sampling units (PSUs) but the strata to which these PSUs are selected differ across the surveys. For Mainland-only surveys in 2006 and 2014, select the PSUs by area of residence (i.e., urban or rural). The same strata were used for the unified 2020-21 survey, but Dar-es-Salaam was split from the other urban areas. The process is more nuanced for the 2000-01 survey where the selection of PSUs in urban areas is further classified by income levels (i.e., high, middle and low-income enumeration areas). Meanwhile, Zanzibar-only surveys in 2006 and 2014 sample the PSUs by region and area of residence.  

The second stage determines the households to be sampled in each PSU, which equally allocated to each quarter.  

## What is the significance level?

The official reports detail results by area of residence. For the rounds that include Mainland Tanzania, reporting of urban areas further broken down into Dar es Salaam and other urban areas.

## Other noteworthy aspects

### Household ID

While a household ID variable is available in all rounds, we reconstructed it by combining information on region, district, ward, enumeration area, household ID and line number. 

### Geographic Information

For the purposes of consistency with official reports in terms of breaking down estimates by geographic levels, we specified the first administrative levels (subnatid1) as follows:

&emsp; **(1)	For Mainland Tanzania-only (2000, 2006 and 2014):** rural, Dar es Salaam, and other urban

&emsp; **(2)	For Zanzibar-only (2006 and 2014):** the whole of Zanzibar 

&emsp; **(3)	Unified survey (2020):** Mainland Tanzania (M-TNZ) Dar es Salaam, M-TNZ other urban, M-TNZ rural, Zanzibar urban and Zanzibar rural.

Meanwhile, changes in the second administrative level (subnatid2) occur as new regions are created from other existing regions. In May 2002, Manyara region in Mainland Tanzania was split from Arusha. In March 2012, 2 new provinces were created: Njombe (from Iringa region), and Katavi (from Rukwa). Also, districts were re-assigned to different regions. Simiyu and Geita each had four districts that were transferred to Shinyanga, a district of Simiyu to Mwanza, and a district of Geita to Kagera.

Note: all just scribbles from here

### Industry and occupation

### Education recodes
-
-
### Minimum age changes for education, labor and migration modules
- in 2000, this is 10 years old for 
- in 2006 onwards, 5 years old for all
### Change in survey definition of economic activity

### Wage variable
- that this includes net business income of employers and self-employed. Caution is needed in making conclusions based on these sub-groups. 
- as this are expressed in net terms, there are cases of negative values (show this in a table). These income values are based on the past month prior to the interview
- to capture only income of wage employees, add the condition: empstat = 1
