
-   [Introduction to Bangladesh Labor Force Survey (BGD
    LFS)](#introduction-to-bangladesh-labor-force-survey-bgd-lfs)
    -   [What is the BGD LFS?](#what-is-the-bgd-lfs)
    -   [What does the BGD LFS cover?](#what-does-the-bgd-lfs-cover)
    -   [Where can the data be found?](#where-can-the-data-be-found)
    -   [What is the sampling
        procedure?](#what-is-the-sampling-procedure)
    -   [What is the significance
        level?](#what-is-the-significance-level)
    -   [Other noteworthy aspects](#other-noteworthy-aspects)

# Introduction to Bangladesh Labor Force Survey (BGD LFS)

## What is the BGD LFS?

The Bangladesh Labor Force Survey (LFS), initiated by the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS) in 1980, has been carried out at irregular intervals over the years. In its early years, the survey was conducted mostly on an annual basis, but in recent years, it has become less frequent. 

The GLD team has harmonized data for the five most recent rounds: 2005-06, 2010, 2013, 2015-16, and 2016-17. In the latest two rounds (2015-16 and 2016-17), the surveys were renamed as the Quarterly Labor Force Survey (QLFS), providing data on a quarterly basis to offer a more detailed understanding of labor market dynamics. Additionally, the questionnaire was updated to gather information on the own-use production of goods and services, a crucial aspect of the informal labor market and subsistence activities in Bangladesh.

## What does the BGD LFS cover?

The Bangladesh LFS is a labor force survey with information on demographic characteristics, education, and labor market activities over the past 7 days. The harmonized years and sample sizes used in the GLD harmonization are as follows:
| Year | HH count | Individual count |
|---|---|---|
| 2005 |          40,000  |                      188,487  |
| 2010 |          43,949  |                      199,274 |
| 2013 |          36,242  |                      156,987  |
| 2015-16 |          121,082  |                      503,756  |
| 2016-17 |          122,455|                      493,886  |

During the 2015-16 and 2016-17 rounds, the Bangladesh LFS implemented a rotational sampling design, in which individuals were interviewed for two consecutive quarters before being replaced. For these two rounds, the table above presents household and individual frequency data distinctively for each quarter.

## Where can the data be found?

The datasets are not accessible to the public and researchers have to request the data from the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics. The World Bank has been granted access to the datasets, if you work or are part of the World Bank Group, kindly contact the Jobs Group with a formal request for access to gld@worldbank.org

## What is the sampling procedure?

The LFS is designed as a stratified two-stage sampling survey. Bangkok Metropolis and the 76 provinces constituted the strata. The strata were each divided by municipal and non-municipal area. The primary sampling units were the enumeration areas for municipal and non-municipal areas. The secondary sampling units were the private households and persons in the collective households. From 2011 onwards, the sampling frame is based on the 2010 census.

Since 2002, the Thailand LFS adopted a [rotation sampling design](utilities/THA_LFS_methodology.pdf). The sampling plan is designed with 4 rotation groups with a 2-2-2 pattern. The samples of villages are divided into 4 rotation groups, which result in the number of PSUs in a province to be equal to a one-fourth of the that of total PSUs. Two household sample sets are selected in each PSU and each is interviewed for two rounds of the survey. This results in the repetition of sample households for two quarters. Beginning 2011, a new rotation was pattern was adopted where the primary sampling units are divided into 11 PSU sets, and 4 sets of households were selected to give a total of 44 household sample sets. 

## What is the significance level?

The official reports detail results by gender, area of residence (urban or rural), and region. However, between 1985 and 1997, the data is designed to generate national level estimates.

## Other noteworthy aspects

### Household ID

The datasets received do not contain ID information. In the GLD project, we have created IDs to provide the best user experience based on geographic identifiers. The household ID is formed based on information on region, province, area of residence or sector, district, village block number, and household number. 

### Geographic Information

In 2001, the Thailand LFS changed the area of residence categories to urban and rural. Prior to that, areas of residence are categorized as municipal, non-municipal and sanitary areas. In the GLD harmonization, urban areas are mapped to municipal areas, while rural areas are mapped to non-municipal and sanitary areas. More details in a [separate document here](Geographic%20codes.md)


### Minimum age for education, migration and employment questions

Since 2001, the education and employment questions are asked only for respondents aged 15 and above. Between 1995 and 2000, the questions (including those for migration module) are asked for 13 and above. Between 1985 and 1994, the employment and migration questions are asked for 11 and above. Meanwhile, the education questions are asked for 11 and above only between 1988 and 1994, and before then, it applied to ages 7 and above.

### Frequency of surveys and its impact on questionnaire design

There have been changes over time in terms of the frequency of the survey rounds. Between 1984 and 1997, there survey is conducted three times a year. The first round used to be conducted in February to coincide with the non-agricultural season. The second round was normally conducted in May to account for the labor force entrants coming from the newly graduated students. The third round was normally held in August during the Agricultural season. Between 1998 and 2001, the Thailand LFS began to conduct the survey quarterly. And from 2001 onwards, the survey was conducted monthly.

In the years when LFS only had 3 rounds, there is a shorter set of questions asked in the second round. Questions not asked in the second round include: (a) income/wage received, (b) the frequency at which the income/wage is received, (c) province and area of migration, (d) reasons for migration, (e) size of establishment in terms of number of employees, and (f) presence of labor union in the place of employment. 

### Missing rounds

This is to note that there are no harmonized LFS datasets for all quarters of 2013 and the 4th quarter of 2012 as we are not able to uniquely identify the observations given the various combinations of the sampling variables available in the dataset. 

### Migration

Questions relating to migration were asked only until 2000. Information was available on individual’s previous area and province of residence, and reason for migration. However, the questions were only asked in the first and third rounds of the surveys. 

### Differences in defining unemployment

The Thailand NSO reports unemployment to include individuals that are either seeking work or available for work. In contrast, the GLD defines the unemployed as those who are seeking and available for work. More details in a [separate document here](Labor%20force%20status.md)

### Employment: Industry Classification

The Thailand LFS follows the ISIC version 1 between 1985 and 2000, and the ISIC version 3 between 2001 and 2010. The LFS began using the Thailand Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities (TSIC) 2009 in the 2011 survey. The NSO published a correspondence table that will allow the conversion of TSIC 2009 codes into ISIC version 3. More details in a [separate document here](Changes%20in%20industry%20and%20occupation.md)

### Employment: Occupation Classification

The Thailand LFS occupation data followed the coding from the international classification for occupations, i.e., ISCO 1958, ISCO 1988 and ISCO 2008. More details in a [separate document here](Changes%20in%20industry%20and%20occupation.md)
