
# Introduction to the Egypt (LFS) Labour Force Survey (LFS)

- [What is the EGY LFS](#what-is-the-egy-lfs)
- [What does the EGY LFS cover?](#what-does-the-egy-lfs-cover)
- [Where can the data be found?](#where-can-the-data-be-found)
- [What is the sampling procedure?](#what-is-the-sampling-procedure)
- [What is the geographic significance level?](#what-is-the-geographic-significance-level)
- [Other noteworthy aspects](#other-noteworthy-aspects)


## What is the EGY LFS?

The EGY LFS XXX

is implemented regularly since 1988  and it provides information about employment, economic activity, occupation, employment status, working hours, and unemployment in Turkey. 

## What does the EGY LFS cover?

The EGY HLFS is a labour force survey XXX


with information on demographic details (age, gender, location), education (academic), migration, labour market activities over the last 7 days, as well as hours worked and activities over the previous 7 days. The harmonized years and sample sizes used in the GLD harmonization are:

| Year	| # of Households	| # of Individuals	|
| :-------	| :--------		| :--------	 	|
| 2006	| 129,527	| 497,137	|
| 2007	| 128,036	| 481,605	|
| 2008	| 129,266	| 481,154   |
| 2009	| 135,891	| 503,329	|
| 2010	| 143,871	| 522,171	|
| 2011	| 144,361	| 517,076	|
| 2012	| 145,910	| 510,807 |
| 2013	| 146,055	| 502,426 |
| 2014	| 150,057	| 393,822 |
| 2015	| 149,615	| 389,035 |
| 2016	| 149,076	| 380,822 |
| 2017	| 149,465	| 378,691 |
| 2018	| 148,780	| 374,172 |
| 2019	| 147,072	| 366,551 |

## Where can the data be found?

The datasets are not available to the public, the researcher/analyst has to purchase access through the [TURKSTAT website](https://www.tuik.gov.tr/Kurumsal/Mikro_Veri). The World Bank has been granted access to the datasets, if you work or are part of the World Bank Group, kindly contact the Jobs Group with a formal request for access to [gld@worldbank.org](gld@worldbank.org).

## What is the sampling procedure?

The LFS is designed as a two-stage stratified cluster sampling survey. The sampling frame is based on a nationwide address database with households as the ultimate sampling unit. Note however, that the sampling frame is updated over the years and there are slight changes to the methodology over time. For example, from 2004 the sampling allowed for subnational estimates. For further details please see the Turkish NSO [site](https://www.tuik.gov.tr/).

Note: Information on methodology is only available from 2011 onwards. The presse releases are the best source of documentation of the sampling and weighting processess for each year. These can be accessed through the following [link](https://data.tuik.gov.tr/Kategori/GetKategori?p=istihdam-issizlik-ve-ucret-108&dil=2). In addition, the NSO prepared an overview of the process that is worth [revising](/Support/B%20-%20Country%20Survey%20Details/TUR/HLFS/Utilities/Presentation_TUIK.pdf) to understand the method and surveying process. 

## What is the geographic significance level?

The official reports detail results by gender, sector (urban or rural), and province. According to [TURKSTAT](https://data.tuik.gov.tr/Bulten/Index?p=Labour-Force-Statistics-2020-37484&dil=2):
             
      "Coverage of persons: All private households who are living in the territory of Republic of Turkey are covered. 
       Residents of schools, dormitories, kindergartens, rest homes for elderly persons, special hospitals, 
        military barracks and recreation  quarters for officers are not covered."


## Other noteworthy aspects
