
# Introduction to the Colombian "Encuesta Continua de Hogares" (Continous Household Survey- ECH)

- [What is the COL survey?](#what-is-the-COL-survey)
- [What does the COL survey cover?](#what-does-the-COL-survey-cover)
- [Where can the data be found?](#where-can-the-data-be-found)
- [What is the sampling procedure?](#what-is-the-sampling-procedure)
- [What is the significance level?](#what-is-the-geographic-significance-level)
- [Other noteworthy aspects](#other-noteworthy-aspects)

## What is the COL survey?

The ECH appeared to center the efforts of collection of labour information across Colombia. The ECH implementation collects the information of thirteen cities between main municipalities, urban and rural dwellings around the country.

## What does the COL survey cover?

| Year	| # of Individuals 	| # of Households	|
| :-------	| :--------		| :--------	 	|
| 2001	| 132,957 | 32,104 |
| 2002	| 131,924	| 32,067 |
| 2003	| 136,730	| 33,430 |
| 2004	| 152,589	| 37,698 |
| 2005	| 148,430	| 37,580 |

## Where can the data be found?

The microdata are free and publicly available on the Colombian National Data Archive (ANDA) [online access](http://microdatos.dane.gov.co/index.php/catalog/MICRODATOS/about_collection/7/1). The microdata is in SPSS, and TXT format. The colombian microdata catalogue also contains all the relevant documentation for each year. 

## What is the sampling procedure?

The ECH uses a probabilistic, multistage design, stratified, unequal clustered, and self-weighted. 

The 2002 manual (see document *Metodología Encuesta Contínua de Hogares* under the ["Related Materials" section of the 2002 documentation site](https://microdatos.dane.gov.co/catalog/199/related_materials)) outlines the sampling procedure as:

    Taking into account the objectives of the ECH Survey, and the fundamental premises, 
    a probabilistic, multi-stage, stratified, unequal conglomerate and self-weighted 
    design was chosen for the thirtheen cities and metropolitan areas.

## What is the geographic significance level?

The data covers national information at the urban and rural levels. It also includes information on the largest regions and political geographic representations (departments). Overall, the sample covers five regions: Atlantic, Oriental, Central, Pacific and Bogota and twenty-four cities and metropolitan areas.

The data is:

- Nationaly representative.
- Monthly representative at the national level.
- Monthly representative for each of the 13 metropolitan areas.
- Annually representative for the sub-regional levels (departments).

However, the survey only covers 23 departments(sub-regional levels).

The missing ones are the Caribbean archipelago of San Andres and 8 provinces in Amazonia and Orinoquia. The survey is still representative nationally as they only represent some 5% of the population.

| 5 regions	| Departments	|
| :-------	| :--------		| 
|Atlantic | Guajira, Cesar, Magdalena , Atlántico, Bolivar , Sucre, Córdoba |
| Oriental | Norte de Santander, Santander, Boyacá, Cundinamarca, Meta |
| Central| Caldas, Risaralda, Quindio, Tolima, Huila, Caquetá, Antioquia |
| Pacifica | Chocó, Cauca, Nariño, Valle | 
| Bogotá |  | 

Source. Dane 2001 [ECH Documentation](https://microdatos.dane.gov.co//catalog/199/download/3115/Metodologia_encuesta_continua_de_hogares.pdf)

## Other noteworthy aspects

###  ISIC (economic activity classification) Classification

The DANE used for ECH a version of revision 3 of International Standard Industrial Classification (ISIC) amended to the national context to classify the economic activities in the household survey (ECH).  The correspondence table between the national ISIC version and the international one is published by DANE [and available here](utilities/ISIC%203%20correspondence%20Colombian%20to%20international%20version.pdf).

| Year	| National classification| ISIC classification	|
| :-------	| :--------		| :--------		| 
|2001-2005| ISIC COLOMBIA AC 3 | ISIC REV 3 |
