# Introduction to Albania (ALB) Labour Force Survey (LFS)

-   [What is the ALB survey?](#what-is-the-alb-lfs)
-   [What does the ALB survey cover?](#what-does-the-alb-lfs)
-   [Where can the data be found?](#where-can-the-data-be-found)
-   [What is the sampling procedure?](#what-is-the-sampling-procedure)
-   [What is the significance level?](#what-is-the-geographic-significance-level)
-   [Other noteworthy aspects](#other-noteworthy-aspects)

## What is the ALB LFS?

The Albania Labour Force Survey (LFS) is a comprehensive labour force survey for all individuals 15 years and above in Albania, conducted by INSTAT annually from 2007 to 2011, and quarterly using a rotating sample since 2012.

## What does the ALB LFS cover?

The Albania Labour Force Survey (LFS) collects labour market information and other socio-economic data required for policy formulation and decision making in planning processes. Currently, we only have information from the 2007 to 2013 surveys. The harmonized LFS years and sample sizes for the GLD are:

| Year | \# of Households | \# of Individuals |
|:-----|:-----------------|:------------------|
| 2007 | 6,626            | 18,634            |
| 2008 | 6,662            | 18,907            |
| 2009 | 6,560            | 18,997            |
| 2010 | 6,411            | 18,436            |
| 2011 | 5,025            | 13,598            |
| 2012 | 7,000            | 19,064            |
| 2013 | 6,080            | 17,523            |

## Where can the data be found?

The survey microdata is free and publicly available on [INSTAT Micro Data](https://www.instat.gov.al/en/figures/micro-data/) from years 2007 to 2013. INSTAT does not publish microdata since the 2013 QLFS and only allows access through a secure computer at INSTAT facilities or the online SIMONA system (currently unavailable), both intended for researchers.

## What is the sampling procedure?

The LFS uses a two-stage sampling design. The INSTAT [dedicated webpage](https://www.instat.gov.al/en/themes/labour-market-and-education/employment-and-unemployment-from-lfs/#tab4) of LFS outlines the sampling procedure as:

```         
  The sample is based in a two-stage sampling procedure. In the first stage are selected the geographical areas with a proportional 
  probability to the size of the enumeration area. In the second stage within each geographical areas (once selected in the first stage) 
  are selected a fix number of households by equal probability systematic sampling method.
```

Since 2012, the survey has become quarterly and adopted a rotational sampling design:

```         
  For the LFS is used a rotational sampling design, whereby a household once selected for interview, is retained in the sample 
  for a total of five consecutive quarters. The same household is scheduled to be interviewed exactly after 13 weeks apart, 
  so that the fifth interview takes place one year after the first.
```

For the precise details please see the respective survey reports.

## What is the geographic significance level? {#what-is-the-geographic-significance-level}

The official reports detail results at the national levels. Only in 2007 and 2008 the information are representative at both national and prefecture (counties) level.

In 2007 and 2008, the country was divided into twelve prefectures: Berat, Dibër, Durres, Gjirokastër, Shkodër, Kukës, Fier, Vlorë, Lezhë, Korçë, Shkodr and Tiranë.


## Other noteworthy aspects


### How recode to ICLS-19

LFS 2007 to 2013 define employment on the basis of the definition introduced during the 13th International Conference of Labour Statisticians (ICLS). This information is coded in the harmonized variabled `icls_v`. However, the GLD also includes surveys that utilize the concept of employment laid out during the 19th ICLS. For more details on the changes [please see here on the ILO website](https://ilostat.ilo.org/methods/concepts-and-definitions/description-work-statistics-icls19/). To ensure comparability, certain modifications can adjust the coding of employment variables, aided by the questionnaire structure. Precise details are covered in a separate [document](icls13to19.md).

### Economic activity coding

The Albanian LFS uses NACE Rev. 1.1 (the statistical classification of economic activities in the European Community) to code economic activities. In the Albanian LFS data avaialbe to us, NACE is coded at the two-digit level (divisions). At this level, NACE Rev. 1.1 is equivalent to ISIC Rev. 3.1.

### Classification of Occupations

The Albanian LFS utilizes the International Standard Classification of Occupations (ISCO) to code occupations. From 2007 to 2009, the LFS employed ISCO-88 for occupational classification. In 2010, the coding system was updated to ISCO-08 to align with the latest international standards, reflecting changes in the labor market and ensuring greater comparability across countries.

### Quarterly estimates

In 2012, the LFS was designed to deliver quarterly national estimates of employment and unemployment. A rotational sampling method was employed, where each selected household remained in the sample for five consecutive quarters. Households were interviewed at 13-week intervals, ensuring that the fifth interview occurred exactly one year after the first.

### Education in Albania

In Albania, education is organized into four stages: primary, lower secondary, upper secondary, followed by undergraduate and graduate levels at the university. The table below illustrates the average duration, in years or grades, of each stage. This information is useful for creating the variable `educy`, that codes the number of years spent in education and the variable `educat7`, that classifies the highest level of education attained by the respondent to seven levels.

| Education level                                     | Grade or Year  |
|:--------------------------                          |:---------------|
| Primary                                             | Grade 1 to 5   |
| 8/9-years school (classes V-IX) - lower secondary   | Grade 6 to 9   |
| Upper Secondary - general                           | Grade 10 to 12 |
| Upper Secondary - vocational                        | 2 to 5 years   |
| Tertiary (BA/BAMA/old system before Bologna)        | 3 to 5 years   |
| Post university / Master                            | 1 to 2 years   |
| Doctorate                                           | 3 years        |


