1. Introduction to PHL
================

-   [Introduction to Philippines Labor Force Survey (PHL
    LFS)](#introduction-to-philippines-labor-force-survey-phl-lfs)
    -   [What is the PHL LFS?](#what-is-the-phl-lfs)
    -   [What does the PHL LFS cover?](#what-does-the-phl-lfs-cover)
    -   [Where can the data be found?](#where-can-the-data-be-found)
    -   [What is the sampling
        procedure?](#what-is-the-sampling-procedure)
    -   [What is the significance
        level?](#what-is-the-significance-level)
    -   [Appending quarterly files](#appending-quarterly-files)
    -   [Other Documentation Files](#other-documentation-files)

# Introduction to Philippines Labor Force Survey (PHL LFS)

## What is the PHL LFS?

The Philippines Labor Force Survey (LFS) is a [Labor Force Survey](https://psa.gov.ph/statistics/survey/labor-force/lfs-index) by the [Philippine Statistics Authority](https://psa.gov.ph/) that is usually consists of four rounds per year, updated with a new questionnaire design in 1987 (PSA Technical Note). Our analysis begins in 1997.

## What does the PHL LFS cover?

The following table presents unique Household and Individual observations in the final GLD dataset after processing. Most raw survey files did not provide a unique household or individual ID, so these were constructed. More information below in “Other Noteworthy Aspects”.

| Year | No. of Households | No. of Individuals |
|:-----|:------------------|:-------------------|
| 1997 | 158,582           | 823776             |
| 1998 | 39,837            | 207,663            |
| 1999 | 38,830            | 200,902            |
| 2000 | 37,967            | 195,553            |
| 2001 | 39,716            | 207,453            |
| 2002 | 154,111           | 79,3975            |
| 2003 | 168,621           | 837,164            |
| 2004 | 175,462           | 853,049            |
| 2005 | 172,619           | 836,289            |
| 2006 | 167,118           | 812,006            |
| 2007 | 164,680           | 798,835            |
| 2008 | 166,006           | 797,746            |
| 2009 | 166,974           | 804,166            |
| 2010 | 166,432           | 795,851            |
| 2011 | 170,426           | 807,631            |
| 2012 | 172,586           | 817,049            |
| 2013 | 174,048           | 818,118            |
| 2014 | 172,077           | 805,307            |
| 2015 | 175,901           | 820,811            |
| 2016 | 167,738           | 752,232            |
| 2017 | 164,198           | 720,935            |
| 2018 | 163,507           | 722,237            |
| 2019 | 160,309           | 707,022            |

## Where can the data be found?

The data for the GLD analysis originates from internal World Bank sources, but many of the survey data are listed publicly on either the Philippine Statistics Authority’s [Data Archive](http://psada.psa.gov.ph/index.php/catalog/LFS) or on the International Labour Organization’s [repository](https://www.ilo.org/surveyLib/index.php/catalog/LFS#_r=&collection=&country=171&dtype=&from=1975&page=1&ps=30&sid=&sk=&sort_by=nation&sort_order=&to=2019&topic=&view=s&vk=), subject to agreements and terms on each of these sites. Documentation can also be found at each of these two locations.

## What is the sampling procedure?

A thorough explanation of the general sampling scheme is available from the [Philippine Statistics Authority](https://psa.gov.ph/content/technical-notes-labor-force-survey-lfs) and an abbreviated version is made available here from the PSA:

-   The Provinces and High Density Urban Cities are used as the sampling domains. The 2013 revision has 117 domains, which consists of 81 provinces and 36 urban cities and other areas.

-   The PSA designs a Master Sample that further subdivides each sampling domain into consists of non-overlapping, randomly-sampled sets of geographic areas called Primary Sampling Units, which     contain about 100-400 households.

## What is the significance level?

The primary significance level is the Province or first administrative disaggregation, [see](https://psa.gov.ph/sites/default/files/ISHB%20-%20Labor%20Force%20Series%20No.161%20July%202014.pdf).

## Appending quarterly files

The PHL LFS is released as quarterly data. The GLD does not always have access to all quarters. Reviewing the variable `int_month` will reveal the quarters included (where January stands for Q1, April for Q2, July for Q3, and October for Q4).

Additionally, and more importantly, the raw data obtained does have different variable names for the same questionnaire variables from one quarter to the next. For example, region information is coded in Q1 of 2007 as `w_regn`, while the variable in Q2 of 2007 is `reg`.

That is why the harmonization for the PHL LFS uses the `ietoolkit` suite of functions developed by our colleagues at [Development Impact Evaluation - DIME](https://github.com/worldbank/ietoolkit).

The necessary Excel files to unify the different quarters which the harmonization code reads in [are available here](utilities/Additional%20Data/Appending%20Excel%20Files).

## Other Documentation Files

[Administrative Levels](Administrative_Levels.md)

[Education and Labor Modules Minimum Ages](Edu_Labor_Ages.md)

[Education Levels](Education_Levels.md)

[Household IDs](Household_IDs.md)

[Industry and Occupation Codes](Industry_Occupation_Codes.md)

[Weights, Population, Labor Force Participation Checks and Methodology](weights_methodology.html)
