
# Introduction to the Colombian "Gran Encuesta Integrada de Hogares" (Great Integrated Household Survey - GEIH)

- [What is the COL survey?](#what-is-the-COL-survey)
- [What does the COL survey cover?](#what-does-the-COL-survey-cover)
- [Where can the data be found?](#where-can-the-data-be-found)
- [What is the sampling procedure?](#what-is-the-sampling-procedure)
- [What is the significance level?](#what-is-the-geographic-significance-level)
- [Other noteworthy aspects](#other-noteworthy-aspects)

## What is the COL survey?

The Extended unified Colombian household survey (GEIH) is the colombian national household survey that records information from the labour force, income and household spending since 2006 (in the current format). Starting November 2006 selected months used the income and households spending GEIH format , yet after January 2009 all months started using the GEIH format. 

## What does the COL survey cover?

The Colombia GEIH is a household survey collecting information on age, sex, location, migration, education (academic), living conditions,income, labour market activities over 12 months, as well as time use and activities over the previous 7 days.  The years and sample size of GEIH harmonized for GLD are:

| Year	| # of Individuals 	| # of Households	|
| :-------	| :--------		| :--------	 	|
| 2006	|   316,976 | 	 82,530 |
| 2009	| 	815,480	| 	220,989	|
| 2010	| 	821,951	| 	226,261	|
| 2011	| 	827,522	| 	230,499	|
| 2012	| 	684,060 | 	209,920 |
| 2013	| 	772,074	| 	228,944	|
| 2014	| 	788,101	|   228,932 |
| 2015	| 	707,597	| 	209,350	|
| 2016	| 	701,013	|   288,763 |
| 2017	| 	691,278	|   208,521 |
| 2018	| 	762,753	|   231,128	|
| 2019	| 	756,063 | 	231,831	|
| 2020	| 	747,822	| 	229,935	|
| 2021	| 	711,381 | 	225,853	|

## Where can the data be found?

The microdata are free and publicly available on the Colombian National Data Archive (ANDA) [online access](https://microdatos.dane.gov.co/catalog/MICRODATOS/about_collection/23/?per_page=5). The microdata is in SPSS, CSV, and TXT format as well as from september 2017- onwards in Stata format. The colombian microdata catalogue also contains all the relevant documentation for each year. 

## What is the sampling procedure?

The GEIH uses a probabilistic, multistage design, stratified, unequal clustered, and self-weighted. 

The 2009 manual (see document *Metodología Gran Encuesta Integrada de Hogares* under the ["Related Materials" section of the 2009 documentation site](https://microdatos.dane.gov.co/catalog/207/related_materials)) outlines the sampling procedure as:

    Taking into account the objectives of the GEIH Survey, and the fundamental premises, a probabilistic, multi-stage, 
    stratified, unequal conglomerate and self-weighted design was chosen (for the twenty-four capital cities with their 
    metropolitan areas).

Note that, even though the sampling logic is consistent over time, there could be changes over time (please consult documentation for each year).

## What is the geographic significance level?

The data covers national information at the urban and rural levels. It also includes information on the largest regions and political geographic representations (departments). Overall, the sample covers five regions: Atlantic, Oriental, Central, Pacific and Bogota and twenty-four cities and metropolitan areas.

The data is:

- Nationaly representative.
- Monthly representative at the national level.
- Monthly representative for each of the 24 cities and 13 metropolitan areas of the sample.
- Annually representative for the sub-regional levels (departments).

However, the survey only covers 24 of the 33 departments(sub-regional levels) (32 plus a Bogotá D.C.).

The missing ones are the Caribbean archipelago of San Andres and 8 provinces in Amazonia and Orinoquia. The survey is still representative nationally as they only represent some 5% of the population.

| 13 large cities	| 11 intermediate Cities	|
| :-------	| :--------		| 
|Bogotá | Tunja
| Medellín - Valle de Aburrá | Florencia
| Cali - Yumbo | Popayán
| Barranquilla - Soledad | Valledupar
| Bucaramanga - Floridablanca - Girón - Piedecuesta | Quibdó
| Manizales - Villamaría | Neiva
| Pasto | Riohacha
| Pereira - Dosquebradas - La Virginia | Santa Marta
| Ibagué | Armenia
| Cúcuta - Villa del Rosario - Los Patios - El Zulia | Sincelejo
| Villavicencio | San Andrés
| Montería |
| Cartagena| 

Source. Dane 2021 [GEIH Documentation](https://microdatos.dane.gov.co/index.php/catalog/701/get_microdata)

## Other noteworthy aspects

### The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on data collection

Due to the COVID-19 Pandemic, the Colombian NSO conducted the GEIH 2020 through phone surveys for the months of March through July. As a result, the data retrieved contains inconsistencies for those months. In particular,  personal information (such as labour status) was absent from the survey responses for these months. The harmonization team has done its best to reduce the consequences of the absence of data in those months. The resulting harmonization is robust enough as per our harmonization methodology. Please, refer to the do-file for this year for further information.

### Absence of ISCO (occupation classification) information

In the GLD harmonized files for Colombia, the ISCO information in "occup_isco" is not present. This is because until recently (mid-2021), the DANE used the national occupation classification or CNO 1970 to categorize occupations of the labour force. The CNO 1970 classification does not directly correspond to the international occupation classification (ISCO), but it was inspired by the ISCO 1968. As a result, the harmonization team decided to declare the variable as missing for all the harmonized years.

###  ISIC (economic activity classification) Classification

The DANE used a version of the international industry classification or ISIC  to classify the economic activities in the household survey (geih). In this [webpage](https://www.dane.gov.co/files/sen/nomenclatura/tablasCorrelativas/TablasCorrelativasCIIURev3_1A_C.pdf), DANE has made avaialble tables of correspondance that can be used to compare the national classificaiton to the international version. 

| Year	| National classification| ISIC classification	|
| :-------	| :--------		| :--------		| 
|2006-2019| ISIC COLOMBIA AC 3 | ISIC REV 3.1 |
| 2020-2021 |ISIC COLOMBIA AC 4| ISIC REV 4 |

###  Additional information

1. The choice of cities and regions of Colombia is further discussed in the following [page](geography.md).
2. For users interested in the method chosen for assembling the data please visit the following [link](data_assembling.md).
3. More details of the ISIC classification [here](ISIC_classification.md).


